.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2014 Ian Darwin http://darwinsys.com/
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.\" The following requests are required for all man pages.
.\"
.\" Remove `\&' from the line below.
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt CVSR 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm cvsr
.Nd automate setting of CVSROOT variable
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm cvsr
.Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility prompts you for one of multiple CVS servers,
and sets the CVSROOT environment variable accordingly.
.Pp
.Nm
is controlled by the file 
${HOME}/.cvsroots ,
which must exist.
This file consists of three fields:
.Pp
Name - the display name, such as "anon1" or "myserver"
.Pp
Comment - a comment to be displayed when the given server is selected,
e.g., for confirmation.
.Pp
Command - an arbitrary shell command, which should include
the sequence "export CVSROOT=" and a hostname.
Multiple commands may be stacked with ";" as in any one-line shell script.
.Pp
Commant lines beginning with the '#' character are ignored.
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
Uses $HOME to find the configuration file.
Sets $CVSROOT to the given server.
.Sh FILES
$HOME/.cvsroots
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal
$ cat ~/.cvsroots
# Name | Snarky Comment | Shell Command
None|None of the above, eh? |unset CVSROOT
Local|Make yourself at home.  |export CVSROOT=/cvs
By IP-Ian|IP for ian? | read IP;export CVSROOT=ian@${IP}:/cvs
By IP-Anon|IP for anoncvs? | read IP; export CVSROOT=anoncvs@${IP}:/cvs
ut|UofT At Your Service|export CVSROOT=anoncvs@openbsd.cs.utoronto.ca:/cvs
anon1|Incognito, eh?|export CVSROOT=anoncvs@anoncvs1.usa.openbsd.org:/cvs
$ . ~/obscripts/dotscripts/cvsr # Try it interactively
CVSROOT=:pserver:ian@localhost:/data/java/JDK2
     1	None
     2	Local
     3	By IP-Ian
     4	By IP-Anon
     5	ut 
     6	anon1 
Which CVS? 2
Make yourself at home
CVSROOT=/cvs
$ . ~/obscripts/dotscripts/cvsr # Show stacked-command example
    # list printed as above
Which CVS? 3
IP for ian? 
1.2.3.4
CVSROOT=ian@1.2.3.4:/cvs
$ echo $CVSROOT
ian@1.2.3.4:/cvs
$ alias ". cvsr=$HOME/obscripts/dotscripts/cvsr" # Put this in .profile etc.
$ cvsr
CVSROOT=ian@1.2.3.4:/cvs
     # list printed as above
Which CVS? 5
UofT At Your Service 
CVSROOT=anoncvs@openbsd.cs.utoronto.ca:/cvs
$ 
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cvs 1
.Sh AUTHORS
Ian Darwin
.Sh CAVEATS
If the given number is out of range, invocation is silently ignored.
If the command is invoked as a shell script instead of an invocation,
it will appear to work but have no effect.
.\" .Sh BUGS
