.\"	$OpenBSD$
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: March 21 2011 $
.Dt MREC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mrec
.Nd record a movie using aucat, video and ffmpeg
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm program
.Op Fl m
.Op Fl a audiorate
.Op Fl-c audiochans
.Op Fl-d audiodevice
.Op Fl-f videorate
.Op Fl-s videoWxH
.Op Fl-v videodevice
output
.Ar
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
script allows one to record videos under 
.Ox .
It is basically a wrapper around
.Xr ffmpeg ,
as in this example adapted from the
.Xr ffmpeg
man page:
.Bd
ffmpeg -f oss -i /dev/audio -f video4linux2 -i /dev/video0 /tmp/out.mpg
.Ed
.Pp
However, at the time this script was written,
.Xr ffmpeg 's 
video4linux2 support did not work with our 
.Xr video 4
support.
.Pp
-m
causes ffmpeg to display the frames as it renders them;
this only works if your X driver supports yuy2 rendering,
and may slow down encoding (resulting in loss of 
audio-video synchronization) on slower machines.
.Pp
-a audiorate
specifies the audio capture rate, e.g., 44100, 128k.
.Pp
-c audiochans
specifies the number of audio channesl e.g., 1, 2.
.Pp
-d audiodev
specifies the audio device. 
The default is "default", which works if you are running
.Xr aucat 1
as a server (-l).
Otherwise use the audio device, e.g., 
/dev/audio.
.Pp
-f videorate
specifies the frame rate in frames per second; default is 15.
.Pp
-s videoWxH
specifies the size of video frames;
the given format must be supported by your video device
and by the
.Xr video 4
driver.
.Pp
-v videodev
specifies the video device. 
The default is "/dev/video0", the first video-conforming image source.
.Pp
outputFile
must be specified; its extention determines the file format,
e.g., foo.wav, bar.mp4.
.Sh EXAMPLES
mrec foo.mp4
.Pp
mrec -a 128k -c 2 -d /dev/audio -f 24 -s 800x600 blah.avi
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ffmpeg 1 ,
.Xr aucat 1 .
.Sh AUTHORS
Written by Ian Darwin and Jacob Meuser.
.Sh BUGS
This script should not be needed.
